Friends here we're going to see how to
automate installation of gate through your shell script.
Simply automate, get installation friends.
Before coming to this video,
please watch these two videos.
First one is a video and this 1 second 1 is
simply a script for this video in terms of functions,
the code is there within this document.
So you know, what is the purpose of this just simple shell script to get
all the good versions from your official get SCM website.
So in our current state,
this is the off of the part then remaining party just
installation of gate based on required geared towards men,
which has been provided by the user.
So first of all, let me open my script.
So I have a script that he'd just to install your good.
So what is the purpose of this script is,
First, let me run it once and see the result.
Please run this script from root user.
So actually I want to install Git using tarball.
Whenever if you want to install Git to using your thought ball,
you should be the root user or you should our root privileges.
So I'm selecting the first one.
So whenever if I want to run this bit,
I should be the root user.
That's what I have given a condition inside of my script, no,
let me enter into root. Now I am the root user.
Now I can run this script, right?
So the purpose of this shell script is,
I assume that you don't have any Git on your host.
Then your cell scriptable,
install, fresh installation of your gate.
If you have already a gate,
then it will ask update or downgrade your good fortune.
Then based on the Washington which you want,
based on that, it will try to upgrade or downgrade your deed version.
And you don't need to worry about the list of
available GET versions which are there with your official website.
Our shelf tube itself,
it is going to get all the way to get Washington's.
See, let me run it and see the output.
See, I included this shell script in terms of,
I mean I implemented the shells could be in terms of functions.
Now foster part is getting available graduations from your official website.
And as of now on my host I how to dot 6.25x1 Shen, right?
So do you want dot-dot-dot downgrade? Yes.
Suppose yes.
Then what is your record version?
So I want to go with the two dots six dot geo version downgrade.
If you wanted to go with any upgrade Foo.main dot four or whatever it may be,
you just select from your available good versions.
Right now I'm entering, now see the result.
It is going to download that file.
It is going to extract it,
it is going to configure it,
it is going to compile it.
And finally it is going to install it.
See whenever if you want to install any tar ball,
you have some steps on your Unix-like systems.
So you need to download the tarball,
then tar.gz file, then extract it.
After that, enter into that extracted file,
then CD extracted directory.
Then configure it, then compile it, then install it.
So these are the steps.
So these are the steps you need to install any tar file on your Unix like systems.
Right now are shall keep performing those steps.
So once it is done,
then you will get your latest are required.
Guassian maybe don't get all upgrade based on your requirement.
Now, our shelf KP's having ease having capability to download and install,
fresh installation or upgrade any good version which is there on your host,
or downgrade any good version which is there on your host.
So these three things PowerShell script will do.
I'm going to show you only one step,
but you can run the same shell script on
your host by simply without having any existing gate,
then your shells could. We'll install your good.
Again second time, just tried to run.
Then it will show the existing version and it will ask,
do you want to update our downgrade?
Then if you want to upgrade or downgrade just to provide
your input with the required version so that it will downgrade or upgrade.
Now see the result previously,
how something washing called 2.2x dot two, something like that.
But now you've got what's 0.6s dot-dot-dot, write.
See guys.
If I try to run our shelter, escape,
if you already get Wusheng phosphate is
going to connect all the G20 actions from your official get esteem upside.
Once it is done,
then it is finding on your current ghost What is the latest current gate toward shannon?
Now what I'm doing is I'm going to remove my git version on my host.
So how am I get here?
Just I am removing that.
No, I'm running.
So if you run your PI,
your shells could won't display this thing.
So previously you how some Guassian,
that's why D showing something like
could R6 dot-dot-dot then you want to upgrade or downgrade.
Now as of now, do we have any good version?
Now, just now we remove the hostilities that which get, let me check it.
User local bin get removed this too as well.
User local. Who've been good.
Now, I don't have any intuition.
Now if I run our shells,
gives you that what is the output you're going to get?
So guys, for colors and date and everything,
I included some functions concept, it's very simple.
See that now you are getting select Guassian to install its means fresh installation.
But previously, if you observe here, current version is there,
but you want to upgrade or downgrade,
but now you're not getting that message because I don't have any good on my host.
Now you can set up any one of that 0.943c available.
See that D it is they're only available for you to watch and see how to select.
Nobody's going to download and extracted,
then configure, then compile,
and then finally it will install.
Right?
So guys, in this shell script I also taken
k. Suppose while installing if something goes wrong, then
I want to replace with incase.
If there is any wold washing which is there on your host,
then I want to replace that with old version.
So for that I have taken a backup.
And finally, I tick if it was I mean,
if it installing, you are required to get or not.
If it is not installing, then I will replace with your old version with backup.
Right?
So once it is done,
then I will show you the script.
So guys, next, moving further in this video,
please try to download our script from you are.
So I'm going to upload this here.
Okay? So here you will get a resource directly.
You can download your shell script.
You just download this.
Okay, once if I upload,
you will get option to download this shell script.
First download that shell script, then simultaneously practice.
Along with this video, try to practice your shell script on
your host so that you'll get the idea how to implement this shell script.
Right? So once it is done,
then I will go and do,
I will do the steps to practice how you can understand the shell script,
how you can implement the shell script.
Anyway, it is going to install your good.
Meanwhile, let me show you here.
Just go top first.
So guys, these are the,
this is some variable just to get the number of columns.
And these are the some functions.
First tried to copy these functions as it is.
So the purpose of first functioning just to get a date as per your required format.
Then second is just to display information in terms of red color.
If you call this function with
argument and that argument I am replacing here with a $1.1.
$1.1 means inside of a function,
the arguments which you are passing to this function.
So I want to print that.
So after that I am making default colors.
Same way if you call this function,
you will get your color, your message in green color.
That's it.
And then here if you observe this is for header purpose,
and this is if you call this function with some messages,
your message will be displayed in the center of a line.
You see that now you got to 0.943c version on your host.
That's fine. Now, let me implement your shell script line by line.
So I'm not going to implement completely,
but I'm giving you a clue how you can understand this shell script, right?
See install Git, I'm taking installer upgrade and downgrade,
install, up, downgrade, get dot SH.
So very first thing,
try to copy this as it is.
Anyway, author, you can place your name, right.
Copy foster these functions.
These are the minimum functions,
the tree you required to display your message in terms of colors and to include
some date message in your message, right?
So first thing is what I'm doing is I should run this shell script you with user as.
Root.
User is a default variable,
environment variable which will capture the current running user.
So if it is root then okay,
if it is not rude,
then I don't want to run my shell script then what I am
doing is if it is not equals to root,
then I am saying to the user,
print, let me print in radical level.
Print the red. We have that function here.
Very first, print red color.
And if you have done here, we have one more thing, get date and time.
So before printing your message, right,
I want to print your message before your message with the date and time.
That's why I'm calling that function in your printer red.
So there's because of this, what you will get 0s,
you will get simply date and time.
Then offer that.
Please run this shell script with root user, that's it.
Then offer that I don't want to run.
If the user is not equals to root,
then I don't want to run.
Then simply exit, exit with some error code that's done.
Now see whatever the script you how let me exit from root install app down.
See that what you are getting.
Please run the shells taped with root user.
Suppose if I run with the root node is not going to give anything,
because now you satisfy the required condition for your user to run your shell script.
Then if you're running with the root user,
then I want to call main function.
Let me take else block though here I'm going to call main street main function.
So somewhere I'm going to define main function now.
Right now here onwards what you will these just simply write main, main function.
So the very first line in main,
What I'm doing is I'm cleaning my screen.
And then after that, what I'm doing is while earning your shell script,
I want to do some header border so far that bring the header.
So this function will print your header based on the symbol which you hope given here,
I am giving equal symbol.
Then after that, print a center.
So I want to print some message at the center that is,
suppose Welcome to get
installation gate instillation
through Bash shell script.
That's it, right?
Let me run it and see the output first.
So that is in this way you have to practice this shell script.
Something goes wrong end of the file or that.
Let me check it.
Yeah, else, fine then main,
main, Yeah, I need to close the function right with curly braces.
I forgot that. Let me close my function main function.
Now it's fine.
Now let me run our shell script and see the results.
See you are getting some border.
I'm header than Welcome to good insulation
through it by shells give you are getting in the middle of your line.
So offer this again.
I want to print this symbol.
So that's why I'm using functions concepts so that I
can reuse the same function in different places.
So after displaying your message,
once again, call you or print a header.
Now this time you can print your header with the different symbol.
Let say I want to display with underscore.
So you just to do one thing, step-by-step,
copy and paste your code in.
Your required shall skip and then execute so that he
can see the purpose of each and every line,
right, so far, so download this shell script,
right, then come down.
Then let me else,
I'm calling main function.
That's a right now main,
Let me such Maine where man is there.
So somewhere you have main.
Just go to their main.
Clear.
So purpose of cleary nuclear command then print the header,
the purpose of print header in nothing but creating header.
Then print detect center V is a function which
will print your message in the middle of a line.
Don't forget about quotations.
You just private that without quotations and with quotations here and what will happen?
You just see that so that you can understand.
Then I want to print something like printing color,
checking all the available good Watson's from official website, right?
Just to copy this line.
First, to do one thing, copy and paste it in your shell script,
whatever the script you are implementing.
So in main function you how to implement each and every line.
Alright?
So get datetime, is there already there to get your time?
Right?
Now let me run. You can save it, see the output.
So in this way, if you,
if you exclude line by line,
you can understand Finally the concept.
So what is the concept I will give you?
And one more thing, offer this line.
What do you have inside of your original shell script which you are going to download?
Download Git to wash shunts in full from official website.
So actually this concept I explain another was sed command, I mean here.
So very sed command, complete censored.
Yeah.
The concept of this video is nothing but whatever the function now we are calling,
that is the concept of that video.
That's why you're forced to go through that video so that you can understand,
download good Watson's info.
Actually, this is a function as a phone nowhere we have that function to call.
But if I run it, you'll get an error.
Let me run this and see the result.
This function, actually it is a function.
Functions are nothing but like a command,
command not found and then come here with your downloaded script,
such that by including parenthesis.
Now the he's the function.
Now copy this function and paste it in your script.
That's it.
And here, while copying,
right, tried to understand line-by-line in this function.
Let me write somewhere that main function.
After that main, I'm writing this function.
So what is the purpose of this function?
Already, you know, in the, in our previous video, in this video,
so that you can understand very easily if you go through this wheel,
I clearly explained here.
That's it.
Now let me run it and see the output.
Yeah, you don't let it get washington file info.
So after that, what you have then come your main function where you, how Maine.
So after this display all available gigawatts and signing to display this,
once again, open your shell script in your main function are this line.
Okay. You may feel hard while working with discrete,
but once you've successfully completed,
you will get lot of knowledge to work with your shell script.
Offer completion of the shell scripts of successfully.
Now if I run, you are getting another call,
display all get Watson's command not found.
Then whatever the file you downloaded in that just
such in this way by including at the end parenthesis.
Yes, you have a function here.
Just copy this function while you copy,
try to understand what is the purpose of this function.
So in this way guys, you tried to understand this entire shell script.
Okay, just let me copy this function and then I will explain the final concept.
What is the, how am I,
how I implemented this shell script?
C that it is going to collect all you are a good too watchin swarm of your,
from your official potassium website offer that it will display the list, right?
That's it.
Now you need to add some more logic to read user request,
whether he wants to install or update our downgrade offer that right,
you need to install that package by downloading.
So what is my steps for these scripts is first I'm
getting all geared towards shuns from official website.
Then after that I am displaying them.
So for display each and every step I am this,
I implemented like a function.
So display all get versions.
Then next step is trying to read required a try to find existing get on
your host if it if he were if we were host has any good find existing gate.
If you hold then displayed that. After that.
If you already get on your host,
The meaning is, what is the purpose of your shells?
Companies try to display messages like already how so-and-so version.
Now you want to, you want to upgrade or downgrade this,
then take information from the user.
So downgrade or upgrade.
So based on user request,
See what I'm having here.
So display existing get info if phi how already existing info,
This function will give written code as 0.
So if you don't have any existing gate,
then this function will do it in code as
00 means you are trying to install new installation,
enter your required me to wash and to install.
If you How then C that we wanted to update our downgrade,
great, that's what I'm displaying.
User will use some message conformation yes-or-no.
I'm converting that the anterior thermo into lowercase with the syntax.
Then after checking that, if user conformation is
yes means user wants to download all have great.
Then let me read that required git version from here.
Then I am reading that off the reading,
I'm comparing the given good question on other host.
If both are equal, then I know I don't want to install I once again,
because user is asking install the same machine which is already there with your good.
That's why I just I'm stopping my script.
If required.
Watson is less than which is there on your host.
That means you are downgrading, resisting the torsion.
It's actually less than is the symbol,
but normally less than E know
redirection symbol to await that special purpose I included slash year.
So if you take here parenthesis,
then no need to take slash.
But if you take simply square brackets,
then you have to take slash less than symbol.
Anyway, or comparing given thing is less
than the existing Washington get on your host, then downgrade.
Else means get whatever the user is given
that is higher than which is there on your host,
then that's why I want to update that Nazi.
So for this, whether you want to downgrade upgrade procedure is same, yes or download.
You are required to get the next started,
then compile, configure, compile and installed. That's what I'm doing here.
The quiet get I'm sending as argument and capturing that.
So before that, before proceeding with our get installation,
I am taking a backup of existing gate.
That's why I'm taking yet get installed location.
So here I'm taking a backup.
So this backup is nothing but just in case
if something goes wrong well, installing you are,
if you are unable to install the required Git on your host,
At least I need to keep adjusting good ASD.
That's why I'm taking this concept here.
Then I'm checking.
Then I'm finding automatically required git URL. Nothing is there.
If you go into any wash enough,
require good, then only this is that different one remaining you early same.
That's why automatically I am placing
the required gate to Washington which has been entered by the user.
Then automatically your shell script is going to form URL for your required intuition.
Then I'm downloading that.
But before downloading, just I'm checking if it is already there.
I don't want to download. That's what I'm checking.
If it is not there, then only I'm downloading,
then I'm going to extract it.
If it is all paid their executive file, I don't want to do it.
If it is not there, then only I am doing that extraction.
So finally, I'm checking DCC as well because you are downloading tar,
tar fall tar file,
you need to compile it to compare unity GCC.
If it is already there,
it won't execute yum install GCC.
Fun way. If it is not there,
then only this line will try to install it.
Gcc.
After that you are moving into execute file.
Then you are configuring your compiling,
then you are installing, that's it.
So after doing all these steps, finally,
I want to display the latest Star current gate.
That's what I'm doing here with the logic.
If something goes wrong, then I am taking I am replacing with backup.
That's it.
So guys, what you'll do is take line by
line from the downward script and try to practice.
If you have any challenges,
please post your questions so that I will help you.
Okay?
Okay, guys, thank you for watching this video.